the politics of immigration policy are
really difficult to discuss in 2017 and
I think part of the problem is that the
only voices that are clearly defined in
the debate are left-wing extremists and
right-wing extremists I think if you ask
the average person to define what is a
moderate liberal position on immigration
policy they can't do it
the vast majority people can't do it
they can't do it in America they can't
do it in Europe they can't do it in
England they can't do it in Australia if
you ask someone to define what is a
moderate conservative policy on
immigration they can't do it however
it's very easy for people to define
what's a right-wing white nationalist
perspective or what are the extremists
in the left wing saying or what are even
the anarchists extremists
anarcho-capitalist saying you know those
are the voices we hear that are clearly
defined that speak in unison and that
are pulling the debate in one direction
or another who's in the middle what does
it mean to be in the middle what does it
mean to be a moderate in a narrow one in
many ways the nature and significance of
immigration has fundamentally changed
from what it was for any prior
generation now the context for this
video obviously is that I've quite
recently expressed contempt for
far-right views I have expressed my
contempt for white nationalism I've
expressed my contempt for the so-called
you know white genocide discourse
however if you've watched the videos on
my channel for a longer period of time
you may have seen I made just one or two
videos talking about my views on refugee
policy and immigration policy and in
them I think many people would say I'm
something like a moderate conservative
depending on what country looking at it
depending on you to find those terms and
thus people on the far left would
perceive me as right-wing on those
specific issues even though in recent
videos have made it very clear that I
despise the right-wing I certainly
despise the right wing's
whole discourse
these issues now it's especially phony
it's especially insincere for
right-wingers to be talking about white
genocide when they show zero sincere
concern in very real historical
genocides and ongoing genocides
you know if we're talking about the
context of Australia Australian
immigration policy very difficult
question talk about a very important
question doctor but I would say in the
context of Australia the moderate
liberal position today the moderate
liberal liberal position is that in the
future white people should not be the
majority of Australians now how do you
indigenous people feel about that in
Australia they have become a minority in
their own country in some cases locally
they've been completely eradicated the
island of Tasmania from everything I've
read the number of people indigenous to
Tasmania is now zero every single one
was exterminated average some other
sources that claim there are a very
small number of survivors who are there
be that as it may the island of Tasmania
which is part part of Australia if you
don't know that is an example of total
genocide so we have a discourse between
what I would call the moderate liberals
and the moderate conservatives where the
moderate liberals are saying that yes
what they want is a multicultural future
what they want is a cosmopolitan future
and when you look at a map of Australia
they see no reason why Australia
shouldn't become 10% Japanese 10%
Chinese maybe 10% Indian well they
shouldn't gather in new talent well ten
percent Filipino for the Philippines
right next door why they shouldn't be
having very large numbers of Asian
immigrants from across Southeast Asia
and surrounding part of the world
Southeast Asia South Asia East Asia and
in this way why Australia shouldn't make
a transition from being a white
dominated colonialist Geneseo society to
being a multicultural multi-ethnic more
diverse and cosmopolitan society albeit
one that is still built on genocide
right now in the Australian context I
find it very difficult to countenance
that
liberal view that way it's a pro
globalization view and what have you
precisely because it ignores the special
significance of the people for whom
Australia is their home you know you
cannot make a simple statement of
Australia for the Australians without
recognizing who are the Australians who
are the indigenous people of Australia
and to what extent is this their
decision I actually saw a lecture from a
clergyman a Christian preacher in
Australia I'm sorry I forget his exact
title but he was a high ranking
representative of one of the Christian
churches in Australia I forget if he was
Protestant or Catholic and he made the
point he said fundamentally if the
native people of Australia asked us to
leave asked why people leave we have to
leave that morally he felt that was
really important that you know they
could have a referendum at any time and
if they were asked to leave a given area
or the whole country that white people
Australia had to be ready to do this now
as you can understand that was shocking
and controversial within Australia but
in the 21st century this is exactly the
type of scenario we have to deal with so
I received a very passionate email from
one of my supporters on patreon who is
French and I can relate to the situation
in France especially because I myself
was an immigrant in France I went
through the government process to become
a French citizen and I I dropped out
before it was completed but I sat in the
classroom with North African Muslims I
went through the assimilation lessons we
are formally taught what it means to
assimilate into French culture by a
French government official you talk
about the political history of France
the status of religion and secularism
and society in France it's it's quite an
interesting process I learned a lot I
was in a classroom where 99% of the
other students were Muslim I think every
single student was Muslim aside from
myself I'm a nihilistic atheist and I
have no Muslim background
aside from myself there was one Tibetan
student one Cambodian student and one I
think one Thai woman no one I also met
one Chinese woman but otherwise the out
of the hundreds everyone else was of
Muslim ancestry and currently in the
Muslim religion there were no secular
Muslims none and again mostly from North
Africa a few from other from other parts
of the of the Muslim world I got to hear
their perspective I got to hear how the
laws worked and I got to hear both from
the instructor and from the other
students how in some cases they
manipulate the laws how they cynically
do things that should be illegal put it
that way and take advantage of legal
mechanisms that were there it was a very
interesting perspective on on
immigration France so I haven't an email
from one of my patreon supporters
expressing his sincere concern about the
extent to which I have seen this myself
some cities in France I can say this is
a fact in the South of France in some
cities in France the downtown core of
the city is no majority Muslim I have
seen that and they're not assimilated
Muslims some of them are legal
immigrants and some of them are illegal
they're not speaking French and they're
they're very much intact
culturally intact examples of North
African Islam that have migrated to
France and of course there are tons of
French people who are respond to this
with alarm and saying this isn't what
they signed up for I have to frame this
discussion though but pointing out the
hypocrisy of people who express that
concern even if it is completely sincere
how do you think the edge if you how do
you think the Cree feel how do you think
the Navajo feel how do you think
Aboriginal Australians feel how do you
think black South Africans feel all over
the world we have the reality of
European colonialism and of real
genocide look at almost anywhere in the
Caribbean there is some diversity of
historical experience in the Caribbean
but the extremely violent history of the
French Empire in the Caribbean have you
heard of Haiti's or in French it expends
iat but Haiti in the Caribbean Haiti San
Domingue and you know this unbelievable
history of French and Spanish
ilysm in in the middle of the Caribbean
which involves genocide and slavery and
what have you how would you feel if you
were the indigenous people in any of
those islands facing up to that reality
the the current reality I've seen in the
South of France with most moments it
presents real challenges and real
problems and I'm willing to discuss them
from my moderately conservative
perspective on those issues but I'm not
willing to do it I'm not willing to
pretend that what we're talking about
here is is so-called white genocide that
is a very phony and very insincere
narrative that everyone has to challenge
I mean this is really if you're right
wing yourself watching this video you
have to challenge and reject this this
narrative in in part by confronting it
with and contrasting it to the reality
of genocide all over the world okay how
does it feel to be a foreigner in your
own country maybe you feel that way if
you're in a city in France if you go to
the downtown core of any of the cities
in southern France where I live myself
that I fit in some of them I visited
some of them was living in so much visit
if you go to the downtown core and the
majority of the people around you or
Muslim immigrants and they're not
speaking French how do you feel ok well
now how did the kree feel how did the
Egyptians or they have to speak French
where there were no services there's no
education there's no police saying
there's no hospitals providing language
there's a real question of the
imposition of shall we say the
imposition of authority from another
country another language and other sets
of norms and standards and practices ok
who wrote the laws in South Africa in
what language were those laws written by
what culture ok let's get real there are
French people who say that they are
afraid of having Sharia law within
France having Muslim cultural ideas and
laws imposed on France okay but if that
is a sincere concern why do you not also
have a sincere concern for that the
total extinguishment of native ways of
life
moral values been a cultural values all
over the world but very obviously in
these examples of already mentioned by
European colonialism and when you look
at that more broadly if you just if you
focus on the imposition of European law
okay South Africa is not a case of
outright genocide
it was a white colonialist project with
terrible crimes against humanity
involved but this imposed European
languages European culture and European
law on the native African people that's
very significant although it's a
different question from a situation like
Quebec or today in Quebec 99% of people
are not indigenous they're white or
they're other colonizing settlers you
know that's very different South Africa
is not 99% white people so is that
there's a different balance but whether
you look at example except Africa or
another difficult example like Japan
Japan had its constitution written for
the Americans Hong Kong Hong Kong has
its law written by the British okay the
idea which again part of this fear
coming from the far-right wing of having
foreign norms laws and institutions
imposed on you that may be a reasonable
fear if stated in a reasonable way but
you're stating it in an unreasonable way
and in a manner that is much worse than
tone-deaf to the ethical reality of
recent and ongoing history of European
colonialism all over the world so for
example I can quote this guy who just
wrote to me on patreon he says that you
know he's trying to defend himself he's
trying to claim that he's not racist
which is understandable every one of
these discussions has to clarify that
there's not racist it seems he says that
he believes Africa should be for the
Africans he says that he believes Europe
should be for the Europeans he says that
he believes Asia should be for the
Asians but this is not historical
reality what is the historical reality
of the French Empire in Cambodia what is
the historical reality of the French
Empire in Vietnam what is the historical
reality the British Empire in India
these are or or Pakistan or many
they're places for the Persian Empire
okay these are cases precisely of
Europeans colonizing Asia none of them
had the attitude of Asia for the Asians
and thus now they do not really have the
luxury of saying that you're Europe
should be for the Europeans there is a
real situation of a moral obligation
that still links France to Vietnam and
France to Cambodia I've seen that myself
it is much deeper than just white guilt
I mean really is there our ongoing
humanitarian projects and cultural
exchanges and the French government they
don't want to leave if anything they
want to try to deepen cultural ties the
French government French taxpayers keep
paying to give free French lessons to
anyone in Laos who wants to learn French
they don't most of them want to learn
English they don't wanna learn French
but the French government will pay for
this and the French government keeps
offering scholarships and special
exchanges they desperately want to cling
to the little bit of influence they have
in their former colonies in Vietnam and
Laos and there they're quite eager to
try to recruit significant numbers of
immigrants from Vietnam and Laos to to
come to France to keep those ties alive
right now why is that maybe that's a
fascinating case study in many ways but
the historical reality as Europeans did
not have the attitude that they should
respect the sovereignty or the
territorial integrity or even the legal
integrity of a country like Vietnam a
country like Cambodia they did the
opposite they imposed European laws
there they colonized it they robbed the
natural resources they tried to get rich
by doing things like opium dealing case
you didn't know both India and French
Indochina opium was the big game
Europeans were trying to get rich quick
from again the British history of
colonisation in India you can't now say
so easily that there should be zero
immigration or zero lengths that there
should be zero immigration from India to
England given the history of England's
colonization and annexation of India so
that is part of the moral playing field
we're on here we're not talking about an
even playing field we're not talking
about a situation in which this patreon
viewer can write to me saying Africa is
for the Africans look at the reality of
South Africa you can't just say Cambodia
is for the Campo
you can't say that and you are
apparently a French citizen sincerely
concerned about problems of immigration
in France if you have a sincere concern
you have to demonstrate that concern
with a real depth of analysis with
sincere analytical detachment on both
sides of the equation you have to look
fairly and I could say honorably at the
legacy of those colonial relationships
and in some cases they're issues that
are still ongoing if you say you don't
want to live in a country with Sharia
law I don't either
I don't want to live under Sharia law
but how do you think Cambodians feel
when they live in a country where their
laws were in the past written by the
French and then they were I should
written by the United Nations and
they're in a process of trying to write
their own laws where their educational
institutions and their hospitals were
built by foreign powers were to such a
radical extent their society was
reformed in Europe's image and another
another really strange example is Japan
because Japan in many ways has become
Americanized and has become Europeanized
without being of formal colony in this
way one of my university professors in
class showed photographs of downtown
Shanghai before or communism he showed
us a bunch of photographs of Shanghai
and said what city do you think this is
where is this in the world
they were beautiful black on my
photographs of Shanghai and the students
couldn't guess and he says it looks like
any city in Europe doesn't it he says in
fact these are photographs of Shanghai
and he told us the years the photographs
taken there was a time when I mean
Shanghai not an example of outright
genocide not the same as indigenous
people in Australia not the same as
indigenous people in Canada the creative
way that Mohawk it's not like that but
nevertheless there's a powerful question
of European civilization being imposed
on Asia and of Asia being remade in a
European image so this is part of the
reason why many people many people who
are pro cosmopolitan or pro
globalization have a sense of fair play
now in saying that France should welcome
in Cambodian culture that France should
welcome in Vietnamese
that England should welcome in India's
culture and that they should be open to
to some extent having their cities
influenced by and remade in the image of
India Cambodia Vietnam when was the last
time you saw architecture that was
distinctively Indian whether you live in
France or England or Villa when probably
never or maybe you've walked past a
Hindu temple but I kind of doubt it when
you walk down the street wherever you
are in the world probably everything you
see is european-style architecture
okay and guess what I live in Asia and
the vast majority the architecture I
walk past is European - it's a hundred
percent European architecture surrounded
me I don't see any authentic local
tradition in the architecture so the
extent to which Asia has been
Europeanized and the whole world has
been Europeanized is something we have
to recognize and in many ways that is
the basis for what's currently ongoing
in globalization this video is long
enough I don't really know if I'm gonna
be able to cover even 25% of what I want
to what I wanted to say in this video
what is a moderate liberal position on
globalization day and what is a moderate
conservative position of globalization
day I think as I've said the moderate
liberals would be people whether they're
in Canada or Australia
who would say that they look forward to
a future that is much more cosmopolitan
and where indeed white people may be the
minority in Australia or white people
may be the majority in Canada that is
currently the property so white people
may become a minority in either
Australia or Canada of a much more
cosmopolitan country however I think
it's also worst point worth pointing out
they do completely assume that they'll
still have a Westminster parliamentary
system that they'll still have a
fundamentally British style of
government that they'll still have a
fundamentally English language code of
law and standards of practices and they
do so with reckless disregard for what
indigenous Canadians might want and with
no sense that in the future indigenous
people in Canada or Australia should
have some important role be it in
Parliament's or be it in the culture and
language of the country or what have you
that Canadian Ness is in some meaningful
sense linked to indigenous
or that Australian Asst is lengthening
meaningful sense to Indigenous
Australians
and their language their culture their
history so that is currently the
moderate liberal perspective and you can
tell if what I've said here I disagree
with it a number of fundamental ways I
would say the moderate conservative
perspective one of the things that makes
it powerful is that it's really built on
skepticism it's built on saying let's
look at these platitudes let's look at
these vague platitudes about welcoming
and all of humanity of cosmopolitanism
of cosmopolitanism of people living
together in harmony let's look at the
mechanisms of how this immigration
actually works
and then what we discover is very often
deeply problematic subject to critique
subject to reform and most of the
reforms tend to less and less
immigration now what do I mean by this
when I was in France for example there
was a principal in law that allowed
anyone who spent four years in a French
University to become a French citizen so
from all of North Africa people who had
the money to send their kids to
university in France could sign up for
this and I was this was explained to me
by French government official three and
a half years into their BA in a French
University they do a four year BA they
would apply for French citizenship and
as you remember the government official
telling me if they're doing a shorter
University diploma they take extra
courses try to make it take longer you
know try to expand her diploma to be
enough years or enough month to get this
immigration process done but about three
and a half years into their degree in
France they start the paperwork and they
can then get residency and they get
citizenship just by virtue of getting PM
France is that a smart policy or is that
a stupid policy well when you say
everyone you mean everyone obviously
that's gonna welcome in people who would
not qualify for citizenship if they were
going through another to have a process
that that's scrutinized right now I
think some people in France would say
well anyone who can get through a BA in
France deserves his shift that's I got a
parsley I'm not a French nationalist I'm
not French I don't agree with that I
think that's completely ridiculous
I think that's a completely insane lotta
half is completely insane for social
policy even though I can see why it's
well-intentioned that probably people
wrote that law I had good intentions and
felt that they should welcome into the
country anyone who goes to that process
another law and I met and spoke with at
some length a young woman he was taking
advantage this law in France another law
they had was along the lines of a
granting citizenship to anyone who
attended French school so here meaning
primary school in high school even if
their parents were illegal immigrants so
I met a girl she was in class with me as
a legal immigrant getting her French
citizenship she had just graduated I
don't know if just recently she had
maybe she'd graduate a couple years
before she had recently graduated from
French high school and she had attended
all levels of schooling in France with
both of her parents being illegal
immigrants so they came in as illegal
immigrants knowing about this law
intentionally abusing this law so that
their daughter could become a citizen of
France which she did she was doing it in
front of my eyes and she talked about
with me exactly how that worked
now that law also I can completely
appreciate the humanitarian impulse
behind it
French legislators probably sat down and
said look we can't blame the children
for the sins of their parents therefore
part of the law was that it guaranteed
access to schools for these children so
even if the parents were legal
immigrants children would still get free
education that still be welcome to the
French school system and then at the end
of their schooling they got kind of
fast-tracked to get paperwork and become
French citizens well that sounds
grandiose and very positive when stated
as a platitude that you're doing the
right thing to help these children who
shouldn't be blamed for their parents
illegal immigration but in reality it's
not just susceptible to abuse it
absolutely encourages illegal immigrants
to come in and take advantage this so if
the conservative position is in this way
stated in terms of a methodological
skepticism of moving beyond platitudes
about human equality moving beyond
platitudes about globalization and
integration and living together in peace
and harmony to look at the real
mechanisms of how countries choose who
are their immigrants and to to
skeptically criticize them then in that
sense I absolutely am a moderate
conservative this is one of those areas
of politics where the more you look at
the details the more your skepticism is
rewarded and the more troubling it is
that we don't have healthy democratic
debate and discourse about how this
works this is a really really strange
area of public policy and as I've said
even when I was in the classroom in a
classroom that was devoted to discussing
this issue a advanced seminar course in
an academic setting with the professor
was supposed to be a specialist in this
area
the professor was not capable talking
about these things calmly she very often
became irrational and irate and overly
emotional and angry and what have you
my Lichtman to you for this video was to
point out that we're now in a situation
in 2017 where first and foremost nobody
seems to be comfortable discussing these
issues not professors in classrooms not
members of parliament in the house of
parliament etc etc and we're the only
voices that are really clearly announced
and consistent are the voices of
left-wing extremists and the other hand
right-wing extremists and where people
find it very very difficult to define or
discuss what are the issues in the
middle and the moral this story for me
again I am a nihilist I don't believe in
any of the statements of platitude I
don't believe in any of the platitudes I
don't believe in any of the ideologies
involved here none of them what I
believe in is the overweening importance
of focusing on those mechanistic and
technical details if you ask Canadians
who controls immigration the meanness
you'll get is there's a point system
there's a point system that means we
don't have to think about it is the
point system racist is the point system
classist is there some reason why
wealthy people from hong kong are
favored by this point system and maybe
not poor people who have other redeeming
qualities that would make them great
immigrants to Canada those are really
hard issues to ask to what extent is
your point system reward people who may
be wealthy and Quorra
and you'll believe me sir I'm currently
living in China I speak Chinese but if
you think I have an uncritical attitude
towards the impact on Canadian Society
of Canadian immigration policy trying to
constantly recruit the wealthiest people
from Hong Kong and China that also has
an impact on Canadian society that's
really worth examining and really worth
thinking about
although it's a very different impact
from say recruiting refugees who are War
veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan these
are very very difficult questions to ask
very different question different
questions to answer and I think we
failed to deal with them because they're
both so ethically loaded nobody wants to
be accused of being a racist nobody
wants to admit their own ignorance and
admitting your own ignorance is a
crucial first step towards learning and
then nobody wants to deal with these
kinds of technical details you can say
oh there is a point system there is a
bureaucracy handling it oh there is a
process for permanent resident status
don't worry worry you should worry it's
it's a choice ultimately made whether by
bureaucrats or by Parliament's or by
local City Hall as they do it in
Switzerland that at the end of the day
it's a choice for who is going to be
Canadian what is the future of Canada
going to be overcome and we have a very
very difficult decision to make in each
country are we going to make those
choices in a matter that's transparent
and accountable or are we going to
sleepwalk through it because it's just
something we can't stand to think about